ENH: QA of physiological signals (#243)
TheAxonLab/hcph-sops: docs/data-collection/scanning.md

    - [ ] check the ECG and RB signals, and fix unanticipated problems (e.g., the respiration belt needs to be fastened tighter);
    - [ ] the *Amphetamine* app is running and keeping the computer unlocked while *AcqKnoledge* is working.

> - [ ] Check the quality of physiological signals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Check the quality of physiological signals.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     Please find in the following image examples of good and bad RB and CO2 signals to support and illustrate the criteria to consider to assess the quality of the physiological signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Please find in the following image examples of good and bad RB and CO<sub>2</sub> signals to support and illustrate the criteria to consider to assess the quality of the physiological signals.
```

>     ??? thanks "Thank you to Cesar Caballero-Gaudes, Stefano Moia, Kristina Zvolankek, Elenor Morgenroth for putting together the slide below [1]."
>     ![qa_physio](../assets/images/qa_physio.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ??? thanks "Thanks to César Caballero-Gaudés, Stefano Moia, Kristina Zvolankek, Elenor Morgenroth for putting together the slide below [1]."

        ![qa_physio](../assets/images/qa_physio.png)
```

>     - [ ] Check the respiration belt signal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Check the RB signal:
```

>         - [ ] The RB signal should not plateau (nor on the peaks, nor on the troughs). This means the RB is maxing out and needs to be loosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ] The RB signal SHOULD NOT plateau (neither saturate at a peak value nor floor at the troughs).
            This means the RB is maxing out and it requires loosening.
```

>         - [ ] The envelope of your signal should remain approximately constant. If the peaks drop or the trough rise, it might be a sign that the RB is too loose. Go back in the scanning room and tighten the RB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ] The envelope of your signal SHOULD remain approximately constant.
            If peaks drop or troughs rise, it might be a sign that the RB is too loose.
            Go back into the scanning room and tighten the RB.
```

        - [ ] Check the corresponding box in the issue collecting notes about the session.

>     - [ ] Check the CO2 signal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Check the CO<sub>2</sub> signal
```

>         - [ ] The period of the CO2 signal should remain constant. If it is not, it is a sign that the vacuum is too low [WHAT SHOULD BE DONE TO SOLVE IT?].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ] The period of the CO<sub>2</sub> signal should remain constant.
            If it varies, the vacuum MAY be too low:
            
            - [ ] Check that the nasal cannula is correctly placed in the participant's nostrils.
            - [ ] Check that all the extension connections of the tube are air-tight
            - [ ] Check that the tube is not hanging at any point.
```

>         - [ ] The envelope of your signal should remain approximately constant. If the peaks get smaller and smaller, it might be a sign that the participant is breathing through his mouth, as such remind the participant to breath through the nose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ] The envelope of your signal SHOULD remain approximately constant.
            If the peaks diminish, it might be a sign that the participant is breathing through their mouth.
            In such a case, remind the participant to breathe through their nose.
```

>             ???+ quote "Remind the participant to breath through the nose"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ???+ quote "Remind the participant they MUST breathe through their nose at all times"
```

                Hey [NAME],

                Everything ok?
                

>                 Please remember to breath through your nose and not your mouth so the CO2 expired can be recorded through the canula. Thank you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                I needed to ask you whether you are breathing through your nose because we are not recording sensible levels of CO<sub>2</sub>.
                [WAIT FOR THEIR RESPONSE]
                Thank you.
```

        - [ ] Check the corresponding box in the issue collecting notes about the session.

>     - [ ] Check the ECG signal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Check the ECG signal:
```

        - [ ] The period and the envelope of the signal should remain constant.

>         - [ ] [The way we placed the ECG electrodes](participant-prep.md#connecting-physiological-recording-sensors-and-probes) should give a ECG signal that looks vaguely like the familiar QRS shape. It is normal that the signal does not look as neat as on the schema, because the magnetic fields of the MR interfere with the electrodes (even if they are MR compatible electrodes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ] [We are placing the ECG electrodes in lead-1 mode](participant-prep.md#connecting-physiological-recording-sensors-and-probes), which should give an ECG signal that looks vaguely like the familiar QRS shape (see below).
            Typically, the signal does not look as neat as on the schema because the magnetic fields of the MR interfere with the electrodes (even if they are MR-compatible electrodes).
```

        It is critical that you don't move, especially at all at the very beginning and the next 20 seconds after you hear the first blipping sounds.

>         Try to minimize swallowing, and eye movements (for example, blinking) and try to maintain comfortable and shallow breathing. Remember to breathe from the nose (not the mouth), so the CO2 expired can be measured through the canula.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Try to minimize swallowing and eye movements (for example, blinking) and maintain comfortable and shallow breathing.
        Remember to breathe through your nose, not through your mouth, so the expired CO<sub>2</sub> can be measured through the cannula.
```

        It is critical that you don't move, especially at all at the very beginning and the next 20 seconds after you hear the first blipping sounds.

        Try to minimize swallowing and eye movements (for example, blinking) and maintain comfortable and shallow breathing.

>         Remember to breathe through your nose, not through your mouth, so the expired CO<sub>2</sub> can be measured through the cannula.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Remember to breathe through your nose, not through your mouth, so the expired CO<sub>2</sub> can be measured with the cannula.
```

    - [ ] Put the exhaust and inlet caps back.

- [ ] The exam is over, you can proceed with the [tear-down protocol](./tear-down.md).

## References

> [1]: Moia, Stefano, Molly Bright, D. Phil., and Cesar Caballero-Gaudes. “Physiologic fMRI Signals: Friend or Foe? How and Why to Measure, Model and Account for Physiology.” Presented at the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM), Glasgow, June 19, 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: https://www.humanbrainmapping.org/i4a/pages/index.cfm?pageid=4055 "Moia, Stefano, Molly Bright, D. Phil., and Cesar Caballero-Gaudes. “Physiologic fMRI Signals: Friend or Foe? How and Why to Measure, Model and Account for Physiology.” Presented at the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM), Glasgow, June 19, 2022."
```
